PlunderWinds
============

PIRATES. TREASURE. ADVENTURE. NOT NECESSARILY IN THAT ORDER.

Currently there is no preferred web server for running plunderwinds. I'd suggest

`python -m SimpleHTTPServer`

***

Installing and Running
======================

First off, you need to install node and npm. There are a lot of tutorials on how to do that online so it's assumed you have the latest version up and running.

Next, install Yeoman (a javascript framework) and [generator-phaser-official](https://github.com/codevinsky/generator-phaser-official/blob/master/README.md):

```
npm install -g yo
npm install -g generator-phaser-official
```

Then, go to the root directory of the plunderwinds repository and run

```
bower install
npm install
```

Now, everything is set up and ready to run. To run, all you have to do is

```
grunt
```

The server will automatically look for changes to the javascript files in the game/ directory and reload when there are changes.

***

Coding Guidelines
=================

* Use 2 spaces for tabs in javascript.
* Use [JSDoc](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JSDoc) when documenting code. Please do not commit undocumented code!
* Make sure you're not duplicating work. Read through other people's work before writing your own, and make sure you're not reimplenting a feature Phaser already has.
* Write useful commit logs. For example, see [this site](http://robots.thoughtbot.com/5-useful-tips-for-a-better-commit-message). In particular, do not use `git commit -m`
* Keep the Asana updated.

***

Quick Phaser Guide
==================

There are a lot of basic tutorials out there for Phaser, particularly on the Phaser site, but none of them go into very advanced games. I like looking through the [examples](http://examples.phaser.io/) and finding code snippets there.

One thing that isn't documented very well is the States in Phaser. The game currently has 5 states:
* Boot - loads the preloader
* Preload - load all the assets
* Menu - the main menu
* Play - the state for the game
* GameOver - the gameover screen

There's a lot of functionality noted over at the [Phaser.State documentation](http://docs.phaser.io/Phaser.State.html) and the [Phaser.StateManager](http://docs.phaser.io/Phaser.StateManager.html) documentation.

In addition, there are 4 important folders/files:
* assets - where all of our images and sounds go
* css - where the stylesheets go
* game - where all the javascripts for games should go
* index.html (in the root directory) - the actual webpage that holds the game

Everything else is either autogenerated or config files. You shouldn't need to play around with the other files too much.